<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-4-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Without the walls of Athens.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Let me look back upon thee. O thou wall,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That girdlest in those wolves, dive in the earth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And fence not Athens! Matrons, turn incontinent!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Obedience fail in children! slaves and fools,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pluck the grave wrinkled senate from the bench,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And minister in their steads! to general filths</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Convert o’ the instant, green virginity,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do’t in your parents’ eyes! bankrupts, hold fast;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rather than render back, out with your knives,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And cut your trusters’ throats! bound servants, steal!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Large-handed robbers your grave masters are,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And pill by law. Maid, to thy master’s bed;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy mistress is o’ the brothel! Son of sixteen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>pluck the lined crutch from thy old limping sire,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With it beat out his brains! Piety, and fear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Religion to the gods, peace, justice, truth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Domestic awe, night-rest, and neighbourhood,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Instruction, manners, mysteries, and trades,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Degrees, observances, customs, and laws,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Decline to your confounding contraries,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let confusion live! Plagues, incident to men,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your potent and infectious fevers heap</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On Athens, ripe for stroke! Thou cold sciatica,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cripple our senators, that their limbs may halt</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As lamely as their manners. Lust and liberty</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Creep in the minds and marrows of our youth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That ’gainst the stream of virtue they may strive,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And drown themselves in riot! Itches, blains,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sow all the Athenian bosoms; and their crop</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be general leprosy! Breath infect breath,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>at their society, as their friendship, may</span>
									<br/>
									<span>merely poison! Nothing I’ll bear from thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But nakedness, thou detestable town!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Take thou that too, with multiplying bans!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Timon will to the woods; where he shall find</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The unkindest beast more kinder than mankind.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The gods confound⁠—hear me, you good gods all⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The Athenians both within and out that wall!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And grant, as Timon grows, his hate may grow</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the whole race of mankind, high and low! Amen. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-4-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Athens. A room in <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</b>, with two or three <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Servants</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Hear you, master steward, where’s our master?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are we undone? cast off? nothing remaining?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Alack, my fellows, what should I say to you?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let me be recorded by the righteous gods,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am as poor as you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Such a house broke!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So noble a master fall’n! All gone! and not</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One friend to take his fortune by the arm,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And go along with him!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>As we do turn our backs</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From our companion thrown into his grave,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So his familiars to his buried fortunes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Slink all away, leave their false vows with him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like empty purses pick’d; and his poor self,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A dedicated beggar to the air,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With his disease of all-shunn’d poverty,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Walks, like contempt, alone. More of our fellows.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter other <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Servants</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td>All broken implements of a ruin’d house.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Servant</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Yet do our hearts wear Timon’s livery;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That see I by our faces; we are fellows still,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Serving alike in sorrow: leak’d is our bark,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And we, poor mates, stand on the dying deck,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hearing the surges threat: we must all part</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into this sea of air.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Good fellows all,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The latest of my wealth I’ll share amongst you.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wherever we shall meet, for Timon’s sake,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let’s yet be fellows; let’s shake our heads, and say,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As ’twere a knell unto our master’s fortunes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>“We have seen better days.” Let each take some;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nay, put out all your hands. Not one word more:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thus part we rich in sorrow, parting poor. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Servants</b> embrace, and part several ways.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, the fierce wretchedness that glory brings us!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who would not wish to be from wealth exempt,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since riches point to misery and contempt?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who would be so mock’d with glory? or to live</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But in a dream of friendship?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To have his pomp and all what state compounds</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But only painted, like his varnish’d friends?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Poor honest lord, brought low by his own heart,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Undone by goodness! Strange, unusual blood,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When man’s worst sin is, he does too much good!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who, then, dares to be half so kind again?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For bounty, that makes gods, does still mar men.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My dearest lord, bless’d, to be most accursed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rich, only to be wretched, thy great fortunes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are made thy chief afflictions. Alas, kind lord!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He’s flung in rage from this ingrateful seat</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of monstrous friends, nor has he with him to</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Supply his life, or that which can command it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll follow and inquire him out:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll ever serve his mind with my best will;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whilst I have gold, I’ll be his steward still. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-4-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Woods and cave, near the seashore.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</b>, from the cave.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O blessed breeding sun, draw from the earth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rotten humidity; below thy sister’s orb</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Infect the air! Twinn’d brothers of one womb,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose procreation, residence, and birth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Scarce is dividant, touch them with several fortunes;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The greater scorns the lesser: not nature,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To whom all sores lay siege, can bear great fortune,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But by contempt of nature.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Raise me this beggar, and deny’t that lord;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The senator shall bear contempt hereditary,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The beggar native honour.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It is the pasture lards the rother’s sides,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The want that makes him lean. Who dares, who dares,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In purity of manhood stand upright,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And say “This man’s a flatterer?” if one be,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So are they all; for every grise of fortune</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is smooth’d by that below: the learned pate</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ducks to the golden fool: all is oblique;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There’s nothing level in our cursed natures,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But direct villany. Therefore, be abhorr’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All feasts, societies, and throngs of men!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His semblable, yea, himself, Timon disdains:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Destruction fang mankind! Earth, yield me roots! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Digging.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his palate</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With thy most operant poison! What is here?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Gold? yellow, glittering, precious gold? No, gods,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am no idle votarist: roots, you clear heavens!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thus much of this will make black white, foul fair,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wrong right, base noble, old young, coward valiant.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ha, you gods! why this? what this, you gods? Why, this</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will lug your priests and servants from your sides,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pluck stout men’s pillows from below their heads:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This yellow slave</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will knit and break religions, bless the accursed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make the hoar leprosy adored, place thieves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And give them title, knee and approbation</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With senators on the bench: this is it</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That makes the wappen’d widow wed again;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She, whom the spital-house and ulcerous sores</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Would cast the gorge at, this embalms and spices</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the April day again. Come, damned earth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou common whore of mankind, that put’st odds</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Among the route of nations, I will make thee</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do thy right nature. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">March afar off.</i> Ha! a drum? Thou’rt quick,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But yet I’ll bury thee: thou’lt go, strong thief,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When gouty keepers of thee cannot stand.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nay, stay thou out for earnest. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Keeping some gold.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</b>, with drum and fife, in warlike manner; <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Phrynia</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Timandra</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>What art thou there? speak.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A beast, as thou art. The canker gnaw thy heart,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For showing me again the eyes of man!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What is thy name? Is man so hateful to thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That art thyself a man?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I am Misanthropos, and hate mankind.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For thy part, I do wish thou wert a dog,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I might love thee something.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I know thee well;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But in thy fortunes am unlearn’d and strange.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I know thee too; and more than that I know thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I not desire to know. Follow thy drum;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With man’s blood paint the ground, gules, gules:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Religious canons, civil laws are cruel;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then what should war be? This fell whore of thine</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath in her more destruction than thy sword,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For all her cherubim look.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phrynia</td>
							<td>Thy lips rot off!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I will not kiss thee; then the rot returns</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To thine own lips again.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>How came the noble Timon to this change?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>As the moon does, by wanting light to give:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But then renew I could not, like the moon;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There were no suns to borrow of.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Noble Timon,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What friendship may I do thee?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>None, but to</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Maintain my opinion.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>What is it, Timon?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Promise me friendship, but perform none: if thou wilt not promise, the gods plague thee, for thou art a man! if thou dost perform, confound thee, for thou art a man!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>I have heard in some sort of thy miseries.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Thou saw’st them, when I had prosperity.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>I see them now; then was a blessed time.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>As thine is now, held with a brace of harlots.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timandra</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Is this the Athenian minion, whom the world</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Voiced so regardfully?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Art thou Timandra?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timandra</td>
							<td>Yes.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Be a whore still: they love thee not that use thee;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Give them diseases, leaving with thee their lust.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make use of thy salt hours: season the slaves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For tubs and baths; bring down rose-cheeked youth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the tub-fast and the diet.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timandra</td>
							<td>Hang thee, monster!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Pardon him, sweet Timandra; for his wits</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are drown’d and lost in his calamities.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I have but little gold of late, brave Timon,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The want whereof doth daily make revolt</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In my penurious band: I have heard, and grieved,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How cursed Athens, mindless of thy worth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Forgetting thy great deeds, when neighbour states,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But for thy sword and fortune, trod upon them⁠—</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>I prithee, beat thy drum, and get thee gone.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>I am thy friend, and pity thee, dear Timon.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>How dost thou pity him whom thou dost trouble?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I had rather be alone.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, fare thee well:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here is some gold for thee.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Keep it, I cannot eat it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>When I have laid proud Athens on a heap⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Warr’st thou ’gainst Athens?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>Ay, Timon, and have cause.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The gods confound them all in thy conquest;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And thee after, when thou hast conquer’d!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>Why me, Timon?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That, by killing of villains,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou wast born to conquer my country.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Put up thy gold: go on⁠—here’s gold⁠—go on;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be as a planetary plague, when Jove</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will o’er some high-viced city hang his poison</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In the sick air: let not thy sword skip one:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pity not honour’d age for his white beard;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He is an usurer: strike me the counterfeit matron;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It is her habit only that is honest,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Herself’s a bawd: let not the virgin’s cheek</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make soft thy trenchant sword; for those milk-paps,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That through the window-bars bore at men’s eyes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are not within the leaf of pity writ,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But set them down horrible traitors: spare not the babe,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose dimpled smiles from fools exhaust their mercy;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Think it a bastard, whom the oracle</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath doubtfully pronounced thy throat shall cut,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And mince it sans remorse: swear against objects;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Put armour on thine ears and on thine eyes;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose proof, nor yells of mothers, maids, nor babes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor sight of priests in holy vestments bleeding,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall pierce a jot. There’s gold to pay soldiers:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make large confusion; and, thy fury spent,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Confounded be thyself! Speak not, be gone.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Hast thou gold yet? I’ll take the gold thou givest me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not all thy counsel.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Dost thou, or dost thou not, heaven’s curse upon thee!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr class="together">
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phrynia<br/>
							Timandra</td>
							<td>Give us some gold, good Timon: hast thou more?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Enough to make a whore forswear her trade,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And to make whores, a bawd. Hold up, you sluts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your aprons mountant: you are not oathable,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Although, I know, you’ll swear, terribly swear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into strong shudders and to heavenly agues</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The immortal gods that hear you⁠—spare your oaths,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll trust to your conditions: be whores still;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And he whose pious breath seeks to convert you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be strong in whore, allure him, burn him up;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let your close fire predominate his smoke,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And be no turncoats: yet may your pains, six months,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be quite contrary: and thatch your poor thin roofs</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With burthens of the dead;⁠—some that were hang’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No matter:⁠—wear them, betray with them: whore still;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Paint till a horse may mire upon your face,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A pox of wrinkles!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr class="together">
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phrynia<br/>
							Timandra</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Well, more gold: what then?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Believe’t, that we’ll do any thing for gold.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Consumptions sow</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In hollow bones of man; strike their sharp shins,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And mar men’s spurring. Crack the lawyer’s voice,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That he may never more false title plead,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor sound his quillets shrilly: hoar the flamen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That scolds against the quality of flesh,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And not believes himself: down with the nose,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Down with it flat; take the bridge quite away</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of him that, his particular to foresee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Smells from the general weal: make curl’d-pate ruffians bald;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let the unscarr’d braggarts of the war</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Derive some pain from you: plague all;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That your activity may defeat and quell</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The source of all erection. There’s more gold:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do you damn others, and let this damn you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And ditches grave you all!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr class="together">
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Phrynia<br/>
							Timandra</td>
							<td>More counsel with more money, bounteous Timon.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>More whore, more mischief first; I have given you earnest.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Strike up the drum towards Athens! Farewell, Timon:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If I thrive well, I’ll visit thee again.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>If I hope well, I’ll never see thee more.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>I never did thee harm.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Yes, thou spokest well of me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>Call’st thou that harm?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Men daily find it. Get thee away, and take</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy beagles with thee.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</td>
							<td>We but offend him. Strike! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Drum beats. Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Alcibiades</b>, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Phrynia</b>, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Timandra</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That nature, being sick of man’s unkindness,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should yet be hungry! Common mother, thou, <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Digging.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose womb unmeasurable, and infinite breast,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Teems, and feeds all; whose self-same mettle,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whereof thy proud child, arrogant man, is puff’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Engenders the black toad and adder blue,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The gilded newt and eyeless venom’d worm,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With all the abhorred births below crisp heaven</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whereon Hyperion’s quickening fire doth shine;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yield him, who all thy human sons doth hate,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From forth thy plenteous bosom, one poor root!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let it no more bring out ingrateful man!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Go great with tigers, dragons, wolves, and bears;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Teem with new monsters, whom thy upward face</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath to the marbled mansion all above</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Never presented!⁠—O, a root⁠—dear thanks!⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Dry up thy marrows, vines, and plough-torn leas;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whereof ungrateful man, with liquorish draughts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And morsels unctuous, greases his pure mind,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That from it all consideration slips!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>More man? plague, plague!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I was directed hither: men report</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou dost affect my manners, and dost use them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>’Tis, then, because thou dost not keep a dog,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom I would imitate: consumption catch thee!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This is in thee a nature but infected;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A poor unmanly melancholy sprung</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From change of fortune. Why this spade? this place?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This slave-like habit? and these looks of care?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy flatterers yet wear silk, drink wine, lie soft;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hug their diseased perfumes, and have forgot</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That ever Timon was. Shame not these woods,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By putting on the cunning of a carper.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be thou a flatterer now, and seek to thrive</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By that which has undone thee: hinge thy knee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let his very breath, whom thou’lt observe,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Blow off thy cap; praise his most vicious strain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And call it excellent: thou wast told thus;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou gavest thine ears like tapsters that bid welcome</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To knaves and all approachers: ’tis most just</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That thou turn rascal; hadst thou wealth again,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rascals should have’t. Do not assume my likeness.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Were I like thee, I’ld throw away myself.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou hast cast away thyself, being like thyself;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A madman so long, now a fool. What, think’st</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That the bleak air, thy boisterous chamberlain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will put thy shirt on warm? will these moss’d trees,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That have outlived the eagle, page thy heels,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And skip where thou point’st out? will the cold brook,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Candied with ice, caudle thy morning taste,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To cure thy o’er-night’s surfeit? Call the creatures</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose naked natures live in an the spite</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of wreakful heaven, whose bare unhoused trunks,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the conflicting elements exposed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Answer mere nature; bid them flatter thee;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, thou shalt find⁠—</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>A fool of thee: depart.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>I love thee better now than e’er I did.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>I hate thee worse.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Why?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Thou flatter’st misery.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>I flatter not; but say thou art a caitiff.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Why dost thou seek me out?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>To vex thee.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Always a villain’s office or a fool’s.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Dost please thyself in’t?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Ay.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>What! a knave too?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If thou didst put this sour-cold habit on</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To castigate thy pride, ’twere well: but thou</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Dost it enforcedly; thou’ldst courtier be again,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wert thou not beggar. Willing misery</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Outlives encertain pomp, is crown’d before:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The one is filling still, never complete;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The other, at high wish: best state, contentless,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath a distracted and most wretched being,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Worse than the worst, content.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou shouldst desire to die, being miserable.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Not by his breath that is more miserable.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou art a slave, whom Fortune’s tender arm</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With favour never clasp’d; but bred a dog.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hadst thou, like us from our first swath, proceeded</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The sweet degrees that this brief world affords</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To such as may the passive drugs of it</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Freely command, thou wouldst have plunged thyself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In general riot; melted down thy youth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In different beds of lust; and never learn’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The icy precepts of respect, but follow’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The sugar’d game before thee. But myself,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who had the world as my confectionary,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The mouths, the tongues, the eyes and hearts of men</span>
									<br/>
									<span>At duty, more than I could frame employment,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That numberless upon me stuck as leaves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do on the oak, hive with one winter’s brush</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fell from their boughs and left me open, bare</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For every storm that blows: I, to bear this,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That never knew but better, is some burden:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy nature did commence in sufferance, time</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath made thee hard in’t. Why shouldst thou hate men?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They never flatter’d thee: what hast thou given?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If thou wilt curse, thy father, that poor rag,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must be thy subject, who in spite put stuff</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To some she beggar and compounded thee</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Poor rogue hereditary. Hence, be gone!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If thou hadst not been born the worst of men,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou hadst been a knave and flatterer.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Art thou proud yet?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Ay, that I am not thee.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I, that I was</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No prodigal.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I, that I am one now:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were all the wealth I have shut up in thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ld give thee leave to hang it. Get thee gone.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That the whole life of Athens were in this!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thus would I eat it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Eating a root.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Here; I will mend thy feast. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Offering him a root.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>First mend my company, take away thyself.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>So I shall mend mine own, by the lack of thine.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>’Tis not well mended so, it is but botch’d; if not, I would it were.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>What wouldst thou have to Athens?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thee thither in a whirlwind. If thou wilt,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Tell them there I have gold; look, so I have.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Here is no use for gold.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The best and truest;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For here it sleeps, and does no hired harm.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Where liest o’ nights, Timon?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Under that’s above me.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where feed’st thou o’ days, Apemantus?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Where my stomach finds meat; or, rather, where I eat it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Would poison were obedient and knew my mind!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Where wouldst thou send it?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>To sauce thy dishes.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>The middle of humanity thou never knewest, but the extremity of both ends: when thou wast in thy gilt and thy perfume, they mocked thee for too much curiosity; in thy rags thou knowest none, but art despised for the contrary. There’s a medlar for thee, eat it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>On what I hate I feed not.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Dost hate a medlar?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Ay, though it look like thee.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>An thou hadst hated meddlers sooner, thou shouldst have loved thyself better now. What man didst thou ever know unthrift that was beloved after his means?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Who, without those means thou talkest of, didst thou ever know beloved?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Myself.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>I understand thee; thou hadst some means to keep a dog.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>What things in the world canst thou nearest compare to thy flatterers?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Women nearest; but men, men are the things themselves. What wouldst thou do with the world, Apemantus, if it lay in thy power?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Give it the beasts, to be rid of the men.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Wouldst thou have thyself fall in the confusion of men, and remain a beast with the beasts?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Ay, Timon.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>A beastly ambition, which the gods grant thee t’ attain to! If thou wert the lion, the fox would beguile thee; if thou wert the lamb, the fox would eat three: if thou wert the fox, the lion would suspect thee, when peradventure thou wert accused by the ass: if thou wert the ass, thy dulness would torment thee, and still thou livedst but as a breakfast to the wolf: if thou wert the wolf, thy greediness would afflict thee, and oft thou shouldst hazard thy life for thy dinner: wert thou the unicorn, pride and wrath would confound thee and make thine own self the conquest of thy fury: wert thou a bear, thou wouldst be killed by the horse: wert thou a horse, thou wouldst be seized by the leopard: wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to the lion and the spots of thy kindred were jurors on thy life: all thy safety were remotion and thy defence absence. What beast couldst thou be, that were not subject to a beast? and what a beast art thou already, that seest not thy loss in transformation!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>If thou couldst please me with speaking to me, thou mightst have hit upon it here: the commonwealth of Athens is become a forest of beasts.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>How has the ass broke the wall, that thou art out of the city?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Yonder comes a poet and a painter: the plague of company light upon thee! I will fear to catch it and give way: when I know not what else to do, I’ll see thee again.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>When there is nothing living but thee, thou shalt be welcome. I had rather be a beggar’s dog than Apemantus.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Thou art the cap of all the fools alive.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Would thou wert clean enough to spit upon!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>A plague on thee! thou art too bad to curse.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>All villains that do stand by thee are pure.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>There is no leprosy but what thou speak’st.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>If I name thee. I’ll beat thee, but I should infect my hands.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>I would my tongue could rot them off!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Away, thou issue of a mangy dog!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Choler does kill me that thou art alive;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I swound to see thee.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Would thou wouldst burst!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Away,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou tedious rogue! I am sorry I shall lose</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A stone by thee. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Throws a stone at him.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Beast!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Slave!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Toad!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Rogue, rogue, rogue!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am sick of this false world, and will love nought</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But even the mere necessities upon’t.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then, Timon, presently prepare thy grave;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lie where the light foam the sea may beat</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy grave-stone daily: make thine epitaph,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That death in me at others’ lives may laugh. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To the gold.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>O thou sweet king-killer, and dear divorce</span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Twixt natural son and sire! thou bright defiler</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of Hymen’s purest bed! thou valiant Mars!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou ever young, fresh, loved and delicate wooer,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose blush doth thaw the consecrated snow</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That lies on Dian’s lap! thou visible god,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That solder’st close impossibilities,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And makest them kiss! that speak’st with every tongue,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To every purpose! O thou touch of hearts!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Think, thy slave man rebels, and by thy virtue</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Set them into confounding odds, that beasts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May have the world in empire!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Would ’twere so!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But not till I am dead. I’ll say thou’st gold:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou wilt be throng’d to shortly.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Throng’d to!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Ay.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Thy back, I prithee.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</td>
							<td>Live, and love thy misery.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Long live so, and so die. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Apemantus</b>.</i> I am quit.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Moe things like men! Eat, Timon, and abhor them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Banditti</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Bandit</td>
							<td>Where should he have this gold? It is some poor fragment, some slender sort of his remainder: the mere want of gold, and the falling-from of his friends, drove him into this melancholy.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Bandit</td>
							<td>It is noised he hath a mass of treasure.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Bandit</td>
							<td>Let us make the assay upon him: if he care not for’t, he will supply us easily; if he covetously reserve it, how shall’s get it?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Bandit</td>
							<td>True; for he bears it not about him, ’tis hid.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Bandit</td>
							<td>Is not this he?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Banditti</td>
							<td>Where?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Bandit</td>
							<td>’Tis his description.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Bandit</td>
							<td>He; I know him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Banditti</td>
							<td>Save thee, Timon.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Now, thieves?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Banditti</td>
							<td>Soldiers, not thieves.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Both too; and women’s sons.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Banditti</td>
							<td>We are not thieves, but men that much do want.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your greatest want is, you want much of meat.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why should you want? Behold, the earth hath roots;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Within this mile break forth a hundred springs;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The oaks bear mast, the briers scarlet hips;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The bounteous housewife, nature, on each bush</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lays her full mess before you. Want! why want?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Bandit</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>We cannot live on grass, on berries, water,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As beasts and birds and fishes.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Nor on the beasts themselves, the birds, and fishes;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You must eat men. Yet thanks I must you con</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That you are thieves profess’d, that you work not</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In holier shapes: for there is boundless theft</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In limited professions. Rascal thieves,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here’s gold. Go, suck the subtle blood o’ the grape,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till the high fever seethe your blood to froth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And so ’scape hanging: trust not the physician;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His antidotes are poison, and he slays</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Moe than you rob: take wealth and lives together;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do villany, do, since you protest to do’t,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like workmen. I’ll example you with thievery.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The sun’s a thief, and with his great attraction</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Robs the vast sea: the moon’s an arrant thief,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And her pale fire she snatches from the sun:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The sea’s a thief, whose liquid surge resolves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The moon into salt tears: the earth’s a thief,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That feeds and breeds by a composture stolen</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From general excrement: each thing’s a thief:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The laws, your curb and whip, in their rough power</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have uncheque’d theft. Love not yourselves: away,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rob one another. There’s more gold. Cut throats:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All that you meet are thieves: to Athens go,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Break open shops; nothing can you steal,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But thieves do lose it: steal no less for this</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I give you; and gold confound you howsoe’er! Amen.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Bandit</td>
							<td>Has almost charmed me from my profession, by persuading me to it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Bandit</td>
							<td>’Tis in the malice of mankind that he thus advises us; not to have us thrive in our mystery.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Bandit</td>
							<td>I’ll believe him as an enemy, and give over my trade.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Bandit</td>
							<td>Let us first see peace in Athens: there is no time so miserable but a man may be true. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Banditti</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O you gods!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is yond despised and ruinous man my lord?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Full of decay and failing? O monument</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And wonder of good deeds evilly bestow’d!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What an alteration of honour</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Has desperate want made!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What viler thing upon the earth than friends</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who can bring noblest minds to basest ends!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How rarely does it meet with this time’s guise,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When man was wish’d to love his enemies!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Grant I may ever love, and rather woo</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Those that would mischief me than those that do!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Has caught me in his eye: I will present</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My honest grief unto him; and, as my lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Still serve him with my life. My dearest master!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td>Away! what art thou?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td>Have you forgot me, sir?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why dost ask that? I have forgot all men;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then, if thou grant’st thou’rt a man, I have forgot thee.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td>An honest poor servant of yours.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Then I know thee not:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I never had honest man about me, I; all</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I kept were knaves, to serve in meat to villains.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The gods are witness,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ne’er did poor steward wear a truer grief</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For his undone lord than mine eyes for you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What, dost thou weep? Come nearer. Then I love thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Because thou art a woman, and disclaim’st</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Flinty mankind; whose eyes do never give</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But thorough lust and laughter. Pity’s sleeping:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Strange times, that weep with laughing, not with weeping!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I beg of you to know me, good my lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To accept my grief and whilst this poor wealth lasts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To entertain me as your steward still.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Had I a steward</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So true, so just, and now so comfortable?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It almost turns my dangerous nature mild.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let me behold thy face. Surely, this man</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was born of woman.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Forgive my general and exceptless rashness,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You perpetual-sober gods! I do proclaim</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One honest man⁠—mistake me not⁠—but one;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No more, I pray⁠—and he’s a steward.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How fain would I have hated all mankind!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And thou redeem’st thyself: but all, save thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I fell with curses.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Methinks thou art more honest now than wise;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For, by oppressing and betraying me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou mightst have sooner got another service:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For many so arrive at second masters,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon their first lord’s neck. But tell me true⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For I must ever doubt, though ne’er so sure⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is not thy kindness subtle, covetous,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If not a usuring kindness, and, as rich men deal gifts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Expecting in return twenty for one?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No, my most worthy master; in whose breast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Doubt and suspect, alas, are placed too late:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You should have fear’d false times when you did feast:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Suspect still comes where an estate is least.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That which I show, heaven knows, is merely love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Duty and zeal to your unmatched mind,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Care of your food and living; and, believe it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My most honour’d lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For any benefit that points to me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Either in hope or present, I’ld exchange</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For this one wish, that you had power and wealth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To requite me, by making rich yourself.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Look thee, ’tis so! Thou singly honest man,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here, take: the gods out of my misery</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have sent thee treasure. Go, live rich and happy;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But thus condition’d: thou shalt build from men;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hate all, curse all, show charity to none,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But let the famish’d flesh slide from the bone,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ere thou relieve the beggar; give to dogs</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What thou deny’st to men; let prisons swallow ’em,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Debts wither ’em to nothing; be men like blasted woods,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And may diseases lick up their false bloods!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And so farewell and thrive.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, let me stay,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And comfort you, my master.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If thou hatest curses,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Stay not; fly, whilst thou art blest and free:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ne’er see thou man, and let me ne’er see thee. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Flavius</b>. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Timon</b> retires to his cave.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
