<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-5" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-5-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>The woods. Before Timon's cave.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Poet and Painter; TIMON watching them from his cave</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td>As I took note of the place, it cannot be far where he abides.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Poet</td>
							<td>What's to be thought of him? does the rumour hold for true, that he's so full of gold?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td>Certain: Alcibiades reports it; Phrynia and Timandra had gold of him: he likewise enriched poor straggling soldiers with great quantity: 'tis said he gave unto his steward a mighty sum.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Poet</td>
							<td>Then this breaking of his has been but a try for his friends.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td>Nothing else: you shall see him a palm in Athens again, and flourish with the highest. Therefore 'tis not amiss we tender our loves to him, in this supposed distress of his: it will show honestly in us; and is very likely to load our purposes with what they travail for, if it be a just true report that goes of his having.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Poet</td>
							<td>What have you now to present unto him?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td>Nothing at this time but my visitation: only I will promise him an excellent piece.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Poet</td>
							<td>I must serve him so too, tell him of an intent that's coming toward him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td>Good as the best. Promising is the very air o' the time: it opens the eyes of expectation: performance is ever the duller for his act; and, but in the plainer and simpler kind of people, the deed of saying is quite out of use. To promise is most courtly and fashionable: performance is a kind of will or testament which argues a great sickness in his judgment that makes it. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">TIMON comes from his cave, behind</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> Excellent workman! thou canst not paint a man so bad as is thyself.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Poet</td>
							<td>I am thinking what I shall say I have provided for him: it must be a personating of himself; a satire against the softness of prosperity, with a discovery of the infinite flatteries that follow youth and opulency.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> Must thou needs stand for a villain in thine own work? wilt thou whip thine own faults in other men? Do so, I have gold for thee.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Poet</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Nay, let's seek him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then do we sin against our own estate,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When we may profit meet, and come too late.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>True;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When the day serves, before black-corner'd night,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Find what thou want'st by free and offer'd light. Come.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> I'll meet you at the turn. What a god's gold,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That he is worshipp'd in a baser temple</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than where swine feed!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis thou that rigg'st the bark and plough'st the foam,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Settlest admired reverence in a slave:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To thee be worship! and thy saints for aye</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be crown'd with plagues that thee alone obey!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fit I meet them. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coming forward</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Poet</td>
							<td>Hail, worthy Timon!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td>Our late noble master!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td>Have I once lived to see two honest men?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Poet</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Having often of your open bounty tasted,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hearing you were retired, your friends fall'n off,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose thankless natures--O abhorred spirits!--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not all the whips of heaven are large enough:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What! to you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose star-like nobleness gave life and influence</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To their whole being! I am rapt and cannot cover</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The monstrous bulk of this ingratitude</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With any size of words.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Let it go naked, men may see't the better:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You that are honest, by being what you are,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make them best seen and known.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He and myself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have travail'd in the great shower of your gifts,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And sweetly felt it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td>Ay, you are honest men.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td>We are hither come to offer you our service.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Most honest men! Why, how shall I requite you?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Can you eat roots, and drink cold water? no.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
							<td>What we can do, we'll do, to do you service.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Ye're honest men: ye've heard that I have gold;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I am sure you have: speak truth; ye're honest men.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So it is said, my noble lord; but therefore</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Came not my friend nor I.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Good honest men! Thou draw'st a counterfeit</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Best in all Athens: thou'rt, indeed, the best;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou counterfeit'st most lively.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td>So, so, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>E'en so, sir, as I say. And, for thy fiction,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why, thy verse swells with stuff so fine and smooth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That thou art even natural in thine art.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But, for all this, my honest-natured friends,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I must needs say you have a little fault:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Marry, 'tis not monstrous in you, neither wish I</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You take much pains to mend.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Beseech your honour</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To make it known to us.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td>You'll take it ill.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
							<td>Most thankfully, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td>Will you, indeed?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
							<td>Doubt it not, worthy lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>There's never a one of you but trusts a knave,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That mightily deceives you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
							<td>Do we, my lord?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Ay, and you hear him cog, see him dissemble,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Know his gross patchery, love him, feed him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Keep in your bosom: yet remain assured</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That he's a made-up villain.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Painter</td>
							<td>I know none such, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Poet</td>
							<td>Nor I.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Look you, I love you well; I'll give you gold,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rid me these villains from your companies:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hang them or stab them, drown them in a draught,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Confound them by some course, and come to me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll give you gold enough.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
							<td>Name them, my lord, let's know them.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You that way and you this, but two in company;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Each man apart, all single and alone,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet an arch-villain keeps him company.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If where thou art two villains shall not be,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come not near him. If thou wouldst not reside</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But where one villain is, then him abandon.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hence, pack! there's gold; you came for gold, ye slaves: <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Painter</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>You have work'd for me; there's payment for you: hence! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Poet</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>You are an alchemist; make gold of that.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Out, rascal dogs! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Beats them out, and then retires to his cave</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter FLAVIUS and two Senators</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FLAVIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>It is in vain that you would speak with Timon;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For he is set so only to himself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That nothing but himself which looks like man</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is friendly with him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Bring us to his cave:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It is our part and promise to the Athenians</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To speak with Timon.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>At all times alike</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Men are not still the same: 'twas time and griefs</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That framed him thus: time, with his fairer hand,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Offering the fortunes of his former days,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The former man may make him. Bring us to him,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And chance it as it may.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FLAVIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Here is his cave.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Peace and content be here! Lord Timon! Timon!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Look out, and speak to friends: the Athenians,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By two of their most reverend senate, greet thee:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Speak to them, noble Timon. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">TIMON comes from his cave</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou sun, that comfort'st, burn! Speak, and be hang'd:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For each true word, a blister! and each false</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be as cauterizing to the root o' the tongue,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Consuming it with speaking!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td>Worthy Timon,--</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td>Of none but such as you, and you of Timon.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td>The senators of Athens greet thee, Timon.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I thank them; and would send them back the plague,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Could I but catch it for them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, forget</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What we are sorry for ourselves in thee.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The senators with one consent of love</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Entreat thee back to Athens; who have thought</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On special dignities, which vacant lie</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For thy best use and wearing.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>They confess</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Toward thee forgetfulness too general, gross:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which now the public body, which doth seldom</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Play the recanter, feeling in itself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A lack of Timon's aid, hath sense withal</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of its own fail, restraining aid to Timon;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And send forth us, to make their sorrow'd render,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Together with a recompense more fruitful</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than their offence can weigh down by the dram;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ay, even such heaps and sums of love and wealth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As shall to thee blot out what wrongs were theirs</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And write in thee the figures of their love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ever to read them thine.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You witch me in it;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Surprise me to the very brink of tears:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lend me a fool's heart and a woman's eyes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I'll beweep these comforts, worthy senators.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Therefore, so please thee to return with us</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And of our Athens, thine and ours, to take</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The captainship, thou shalt be met with thanks,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Allow'd with absolute power and thy good name</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Live with authority: so soon we shall drive back</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of Alcibiades the approaches wild,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who, like a boar too savage, doth root up</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His country's peace.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And shakes his threatening sword</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Against the walls of Athens.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td>Therefore, Timon,--</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Well, sir, I will; therefore, I will, sir; thus:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If Alcibiades kill my countrymen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let Alcibiades know this of Timon,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That Timon cares not. But if be sack fair Athens,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And take our goodly aged men by the beards,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Giving our holy virgins to the stain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of contumelious, beastly, mad-brain'd war,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then let him know, and tell him Timon speaks it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In pity of our aged and our youth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I cannot choose but tell him, that I care not,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let him take't at worst; for their knives care not,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>While you have throats to answer: for myself,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There's not a whittle in the unruly camp</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I do prize it at my love before</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The reverend'st throat in Athens. So I leave you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the protection of the prosperous gods,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As thieves to keepers.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FLAVIUS</td>
							<td>Stay not, all's in vain.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, I was writing of my epitaph;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>it will be seen to-morrow: my long sickness</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of health and living now begins to mend,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And nothing brings me all things. Go, live still;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be Alcibiades your plague, you his,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And last so long enough!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td>We speak in vain.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>But yet I love my country, and am not</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One that rejoices in the common wreck,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As common bruit doth put it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td>That's well spoke.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td>Commend me to my loving countrymen,--</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td>These words become your lips as they pass thorough them.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And enter in our ears like great triumphers</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In their applauding gates.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Commend me to them,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And tell them that, to ease them of their griefs,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Their fears of hostile strokes, their aches, losses,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Their pangs of love, with other incident throes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That nature's fragile vessel doth sustain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In life's uncertain voyage, I will some kindness do them:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll teach them to prevent wild Alcibiades' wrath.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td>I like this well; he will return again.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I have a tree, which grows here in my close,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That mine own use invites me to cut down,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And shortly must I fell it: tell my friends,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Tell Athens, in the sequence of degree</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From high to low throughout, that whoso please</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To stop affliction, let him take his haste,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come hither, ere my tree hath felt the axe,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And hang himself. I pray you, do my greeting.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">FLAVIUS</td>
							<td>Trouble him no further; thus you still shall find him.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">TIMON</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Come not to me again: but say to Athens,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Timon hath made his everlasting mansion</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon the beached verge of the salt flood;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who once a day with his embossed froth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The turbulent surge shall cover: thither come,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let my grave-stone be your oracle.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lips, let sour words go by and language end:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What is amiss plague and infection mend!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Graves only be men's works and death their gain!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sun, hide thy beams! Timon hath done his reign. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Retires to his cave</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>His discontents are unremoveably</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Coupled to nature.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Our hope in him is dead: let us return,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And strain what other means is left unto us</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In our dear peril.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td>It requires swift foot. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-5-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Before the walls of Athens.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter two Senators and a Messenger</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou hast painfully discover'd: are his files</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As full as thy report?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>have spoke the least:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Besides, his expedition promises</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Present approach.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td>We stand much hazard, if they bring not Timon.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I met a courier, one mine ancient friend;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom, though in general part we were opposed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet our old love made a particular force,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And made us speak like friends: this man was riding</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From Alcibiades to Timon's cave,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With letters of entreaty, which imported</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His fellowship i' the cause against your city,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In part for his sake moved.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td>Here come our brothers.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter the Senators from TIMON</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Third Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No talk of Timon, nothing of him expect.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The enemies' drum is heard, and fearful scouring</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Doth choke the air with dust: in, and prepare:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ours is the fall, I fear; our foes the snare. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-5-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>The woods. Timon's cave, and a rude tomb seen.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a Soldier, seeking TIMON</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Soldier</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>By all description this should be the place.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who's here? speak, ho! No answer! What is this?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Timon is dead, who hath outstretch'd his span:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some beast rear'd this; there does not live a man.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Dead, sure; and this his grave. What's on this tomb</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I cannot read; the character I'll take with wax:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our captain hath in every figure skill,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>An aged interpreter, though young in days:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Before proud Athens he's set down by this,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose fall the mark of his ambition is. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-5-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Before the walls of Athens.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Trumpets sound. Enter ALCIBIADES with his powers</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ALCIBIADES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sound to this coward and lascivious town</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our terrible approach. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A parley sounded</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Senators on the walls</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Till now you have gone on and fill'd the time</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With all licentious measure, making your wills</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The scope of justice; till now myself and such</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As slept within the shadow of your power</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hav e wander'd with our traversed arms and breathed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our sufferance vainly: now the time is flush,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When crouching marrow in the bearer strong</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cries of itself 'No more:' now breathless wrong</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall sit and pant in your great chairs of ease,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And pursy insolence shall break his wind</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With fear and horrid flight.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Noble and young,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When thy first griefs were but a mere conceit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ere thou hadst power or we had cause of fear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We sent to thee, to give thy rages balm,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To wipe out our ingratitude with loves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Above their quantity.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So did we woo</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Transformed Timon to our city's love</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By humble message and by promised means:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We were not all unkind, nor all deserve</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The common stroke of war.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>These walls of ours</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were not erected by their hands from whom</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You have received your griefs; nor are they such</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That these great towers, trophies and schools should fall</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For private faults in them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Nor are they living</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who were the motives that you first went out;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shame that they wanted cunning, in excess</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath broke their hearts. March, noble lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into our city with thy banners spread:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By decimation, and a tithed death--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If thy revenges hunger for that food</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which nature loathes--take thou the destined tenth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And by the hazard of the spotted die</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let die the spotted.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>All have not offended;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For those that were, it is not square to take</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On those that are, revenges: crimes, like lands,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are not inherited. Then, dear countryman,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bring in thy ranks, but leave without thy rage:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Spare thy Athenian cradle and those kin</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which in the bluster of thy wrath must fall</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With those that have offended: like a shepherd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Approach the fold and cull the infected forth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But kill not all together.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What thou wilt,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou rather shalt enforce it with thy smile</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than hew to't with thy sword.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Set but thy foot</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Against our rampired gates, and they shall ope;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So thou wilt send thy gentle heart before,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To say thou'lt enter friendly.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Senator</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Throw thy glove,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or any token of thine honour else,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That thou wilt use the wars as thy redress</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And not as our confusion, all thy powers</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall make their harbour in our town, till we</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have seal'd thy full desire.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ALCIBIADES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Then there's my glove;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Descend, and open your uncharged ports:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Those enemies of Timon's and mine own</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom you yourselves shall set out for reproof</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fall and no more: and, to atone your fears</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With my more noble meaning, not a man</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Shall pass his quarter, or offend the stream</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of regular justice in your city's bounds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But shall be render'd to your public laws</span>
									<br/>
									<span>At heaviest answer.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
							<td>'Tis most nobly spoken.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ALCIBIADES</td>
							<td>Descend, and keep your words. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The Senators descend, and open the gates</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Soldier</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Soldier</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My noble general, Timon is dead;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Entomb'd upon the very hem o' the sea;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And on his grave-stone this insculpture, which</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With wax I brought away, whose soft impression</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Interprets for my poor ignorance.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ALCIBIADES</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reads the epitaph</i> 'Here lies a</span>
									<br/>
									<span>wretched corse, of wretched soul bereft:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Seek not my name: a plague consume you wicked caitiffs left!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here lie I, Timon; who, alive, all living men did hate:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pass by and curse thy fill, but pass and stay not here thy gait.'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These well express in thee thy latter spirits:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though thou abhorr'dst in us our human griefs,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Scorn'dst our brain's flow and those our droplets which</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From niggard nature fall, yet rich conceit</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Taught thee to make vast Neptune weep for aye</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On thy low grave, on faults forgiven. Dead</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is noble Timon: of whose memory</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hereafter more. Bring me into your city,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I will use the olive with my sword,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make war breed peace, make peace stint war, make each</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Prescribe to other as each other's leech.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let our drums strike. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
